----- Brian Cox talks ‘Succession’ -----

As viewers are still reeling from the perilous series finale episode
of ‘Succession,’ the show’s star, Brian Cox, says he still hasn’t
watched it.

“I haven’t seen the end of the show,” Cox, who played media magnate
Logan Roy, said on Sunday during an appearance on BBC’s “Sunday with
Laura Kuenssberg.”

When Cox was asked about why he didn’t tune in, well, the answer was
simple. “I’m dead,” he said with a laugh, adding that “dead people
don’t watch things like that.”

As the patriarch to the Roy family, and the head of the billion-
dollar media company Waystar Royco, Logan unexpectedly died in a
shocking twist early on in the fourth and final season.

The rest of the season followed Logan’s three adult children, Kendall
(Jeremy Strong), Shiv (Sarah Snook) and Roman (Kieran Culkin) as they
engaged in a familial and corporate battle to take over his media
empire.

Cox admitted that he’s been “disinclined” to watch the rest of season
after Logan’s death in the third episode.

“I don’t cling onto things,” he said. “When I’m over, it’s over and I
go on.”

Speaking with the BBC in May, Cox similarly admitted that he has yet
to even watch Logan’s final scene because, he said, “I have no
interest in watching my own death – that will come soon enough.”

Despite not seeing the end, Cox emphasized on Sunday that he doesn’t
need to watch the finale to know how it ends because “I knew that
Logan had already set it up and so I gather that ultimately, at the
end, Logan’s won through even though he’s in the grave.”

The “Succession” finale aired on May 28 after first premiering on HBO
in 2018. The show has won 13 Emmys, with Cox earning two lead actor
nominations in 2020 and 2022. (HBO, like CNN, is a unit of Warner
Bros. Discovery.)


Link to the original article: https://www.cnn.com/2023/06/04/entertainment/brian-cox-succession-finale/index.html