----- Even Street Fighter 6 has been modded into VR now -----

My Quest 2 is pretty much just a thing I play Beat Saber on at this 
point, but it's always nice to see a flat game ported to VR. I've 
played headset implementations of Quake 2 and various other '90s 
shooters, and it's always felt right. The 1990s was peak VR mania, and 
seeing the first-person games of that era through goggles that get 
foggy if I put them on my hot face on a cold day seems like exactly 
where they belong. I did not expect to see Street Fighter in VR, 
however. 

The VR implementation of Street Fighter 6 comes to us via Praydog in 
the latest version of REFramework, which adds VR support to all RE 
Engine games. That means it supports the modern Resident Evils 2 
through 4, 7, and Village, but also Devil May Cry 5 and Monster Hunter 
Rise. And, yes, now it supports Street Fighter 6. 

It's not an obvious choice for VR, because who wants to see E. Honda 
slam them down in first-person? OK, somebody out there absolutely does 
want to see that, but it's not what REFramework delivers. Instead it's 
implemented as if you're in the front row of the crowd cheering on 
your favorite fighters of the street variety. The camera isn't always 
100% under your control, zooming in varying amounts for special moves 
and certain counters in a way I imagine might be a bit disorienting, 
but it still looks pretty neat. 

Most of the footage shows it being played without a HUD, but it's 
clearly there as an option, and you can see what it looks like with 
health bars in the Juri versus Cammy match around the one-minute mark. 
You can also see some animation oddities, presumably due to your 
increased freedom to view things from angles of your choosing, like 
Cammy's head fully leaving her body like a bloodless Mortal Kombat 
fatality. 

Praydog has also taken over work on a universal VR injector for games 
made in the Unreal Engine, which could eventually mean seeing any game 
made in Unreal available in VR, with demo footage showing Stray, 
Ghostrunner, Back For Blood, Satisfactory, The Quarry, and even Life 
is Strange: True Colors all turned virtual. Maybe I should try playing 
something other than Beat Saber after all.Â  


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/even-street-fighter-6-has-been-modded-into-vr-now/