----- After 13 years, Amnesia: The Dark Descent got Steam Workshop support out of nowhere -----

In a surprise move, Frictional Games has introduced Steam Workshop 
support for its foundational horror game, Amnesia: The Dark Descent. 
The change came four days before the launch of the latest game in the 
series, The Bunker, and brings The Dark Descent more in line with 
later games from Frictional like Soma and Amnesia: Rebirth. 

"We are well aware (and in awe) of the countless mods and custom 
stories made throughout the years," Frictional wrote in its 
announcement. "And now we've finally ensured you can publish and 
install them smoothly via Steam." 

Frictional has historically been friendly to modding already, making 
level building tools for its in-house HPL engine freely available and 
including a "custom story" option right in the main menu of compatible 
games, making accessing user-made campaigns a cinch. Previously, mods 
for The Dark Descent could primarily be found on ModDB and NexusMods. 

The Steam Workshop compatibility offers more convenience for players 
who want to access custom campaigns for Amnesia, as well as greater 
discoverability for mod makers—it's a nice show of support from 
Frictional to the community. I'm particularly intrigued by this HPL 
engine Dark Souls 3 homage, "Profaned Capital," that was first 
released in 2020 and now seems to be attracting renewed attention on 
Steam. 

The latest entry in the Amnesia series, The Bunker, launches in just a 
few days, and it's shaping up to be something special. PCG staff 
writer Morgan Park praised The Bunker's open-ended gameplay in an 
earlier preview, finding it to be "inching toward the player agency 
and emergent gameplay of a full-blown immersive sim."  


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/after-13-years-amnesia-the-dark-descent-has-gotten-steam-workshop-support-out-of-nowhere/