----- Boy howdy that new Hunt: Showdown gator is an absolute hoss -----

Wild and weird shooter Hunt: Showdown has a new boss in town and she 
is just about the biggest gator I can think of. Rotjaw, an absolutely 
huge alligator, will be joining the world of Hunt as the newest threat 
to player Hunters as they fight each other over the right to take her 
down first. Which I'm sure everyone is thrilled about, right? Fighting 
a monster gator in a swamp, on its own turf, where there isn't much at 
all you can do to slow it down and it has every advantage? 

Which is hysterical to me, frankly. In a world of monstrous spirits, 
Â undead horrors, abominations from beyond space, and the like, now a 
viciously scary and dangerous monster on par with all those things 
is... A real big gator. Very large, to be fair, but not even that much 
larger than the largest gators ever found. Like, I dunno, 50% larger! 
Which to me is barely fantasy territory because I live in a region 
with alligators. She just a real big gator, y'all. 

Rotjaw will make her debut in the Tide of Shadows event this summer. 
That rain in the trailer will come in too, while we're at it. It's 
real pretty. 

Rotjaw will be a Wild Target, the first of its kind, and will prowl 
deep water areas to stalk intruders. "If Hunters do come across her, 
she will charge through the water, biting and knocking down anyone who 
dares to come near. Fused to a cage and breaking out of it when she 
reaches a certain level, Rotjaw will unleash her wrath dealing damage 
to anyone who tries to stop her," said Crytek in their announcement. 

Fans, meanwhile, seemed very excited about the gator. "Hunt continuing 
its storied legacy of letting women commit atrocities by making the 
gator boss a girl. women stay winning, we stan a girlboss," said 
commenter smalls2233 on Reddit. 

Hunt: Showdown is a competitive first-person shooter where players 
fight among each other to claim bounties in a supernaturally-charged 
old west Louisiana, 1895. Players fly solo or in 2-3 person teams 
against each other and the gruesome monsters that inhabit the map. 

You can find Hunt: Showdown on its official website and on Steam. Last 
month we spoke with one of the developers of Hunt: Showdown at a PC 
Gamer moderated panel on shooters, who revealed that 40% of players 
have never killed another player (in-game, that is.) 



Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/boy-howdy-that-new-hunt-showdown-gator-is-an-absolute-hoss/