----- Today's Wordle hint and answer #715: Sunday, June 4 -----

Looking for help with Wordle? The answer to today's puzzle is only a 
click away, ready and waiting to save your win streak. Just before 
that, you'll find all sorts of tips, guides, and even a clue for the 
June 4 (715) puzzle too. However you want to win, we're here to help. 

You'd think having one green and three early yellows would make 
finding the answer a formality, but today it took me one more go just 
to arrange those in the right order and then another two to find 
today's word. Just to add a little extra danger into the mix, my 
almost-solution had more valid alternatives than I had the guesses 
spare to whittle them down, but luckily for me, I found today's Wordle 
answer just in time.¬† 


Large, dangerous, and generally unpleasant animals may be referred to 
by today's answer, as could any person who fits that description. 
Today's answer's also one-half of an animated Disney couple. You'll 
have to find two different vowels to clear this Wordle.¬† 

No letters are used twice in today's puzzle.¬† 

Anyone can pick up and play Wordle, but if you want to do it well and 
make all of your guesses count, these quick tips will help get you 
started on your Wordle winning streak:¬† 

Thankfully, there's no time limit beyond ensuring it's done by 
midnight. So there's no reason not to treat the game like a casual 
newspaper crossword and come back to it later if you're coming up 
blank. Sometimes stepping away for a while means you can come back 
with a fresh perspective.¬† 


Struggling? Not any more. The answer to the June 4 (715) Wordle is 
BEAST. 

Past Wordle answers can give you some excellent ideas for fun starting 
words that keep your daily puzzle-solving fresh. They are also a good 
way to eliminate guesses for today's Wordle, as the answer is unlikely 
to be repeated.¬† 

Here are some recent Wordle solutions: 


Wordle gives you six rows of five boxes each day, and you'll need to 
work out which secret five-letter word is hiding inside them to keep 
up your winning streak. 

You should start with a strong word like ARISE, or any other word that 
contains a good mix of common consonants and multiple vowels. You'll 
also want to avoid starting words with repeating letters, as you're 
wasting the chance to potentially eliminate or confirm an extra 
letter. Once you hit Enter, you'll see which ones you've got right or 
wrong. If a box turns ‚¨õÔ∏è, it means that letter isn't in the secret 
word at all. üü® means the letter is in the word, but not in that 
position. üü© means you've got the right letter in the right spot. 

You'll want your next guess to compliment the first, using another 
"good" word to cover any common letters you might have missed last 
time while also trying to avoid any letter you now know for a fact 
isn't present in today's answer. After that, it's simply a case of 
using what you've learned to narrow your guesses down to the correct 
word. You have six tries in total and can only use real words and 
don't forget letters can repeat too (eg: BOOKS). 

If you need any further advice feel free to check out our Wordle tips, 
and if you'd like to find out which words have already been used you 
can scroll to the relevant section above.¬† 

Originally, Wordle was dreamed up by software engineer Josh Wardle, as 
a surprise for his partner who loves word games. From there it spread 
to his family, and finally got released to the public. The word puzzle 
game has since inspired tons of games like Wordle, refocusing the 
daily gimmick around music or math or geography. It wasn't long before 
Wordle became so popular it was sold to the New York Times for seven 
figures. Surely it's only a matter of time before we all solely 
communicate in tricolor boxes.¬† 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/wordle-today-hint-answer-715-june-4/