----- Beloved Twitch streamer Puppers dies at 32 -----

"Forever in our hearts, eternally comfy," reads a memorial tweet for 
Puppers, also known as Max, a popular Dead by Daylight streamer who 
died this week at age 32. In 2020, Max was diagnosed with terminal 
ALS, an incurable nervous system disease. 

The tweet, which references Max's warm appeals to "stay comfy," came 
from Light in the Fog, a Dead by Daylight fundraiser tournament series 
that collected $270,000 for his treatment in 2021 and 2022. The events 
were organized by Sunshine, Eshleee, and Silver, three long-distance 
friends who relocated to help care for Max following his diagnosis. 

"Being his caregiver as he fought this absolutely awful disease was 
the biggest test and the biggest joy of my life," Sunshine told the 
BBC .Â  

Max first started streaming on Twitch precursor Justin.tv in 2011, 
according to the Light in the Fog website, and played League of 
Legends and various horror games before discovering Dead by Daylight 
after its release in 2016.Â  

"As viewership in his channel skyrocketed, Max became known for his 
Dead by Daylight inspired cosplays, his in-game skits, and his 
interactive chat experience," reads his bio. Max's Twitch account has 
more than 200,000 followers. 

According to a GoFundMe page set up to help Max's family with funeral 
expenses, his health rapidly declined on May 25 after he "suddenly 
developed difficulty breathing" and chose at that time to "forego 
further interventions to prolong his care." 

Funds not used for Max's funeral arrangements and final expenses will 
be used by Sunshine, Eshleee, and Silver to return to their home 
states, the fundraiser page states. 

"Thank you for finding a home in The Fog. Your joy and love made it a 
better place, and it was an honor to be comfy with you," wrote Dead by 
Daylight developer Behaviour Interactive on Twitter. "Puppers was, and 
always will be, one of the brightest lights in The Fog. Everyone that 
light touched is forever changed by having known him." 

Thank you for finding a home in The Fog. Your joy and love made it a 
better place, and it was an honor to be comfy with you. Puppers was, 
and always will be, one of the brightest lights in The Fog. Everyone 
that light touched is forever changed by having known him. 
https://t.co/CeEY5fhU1UJune 2, 2023 

"Puppers/Max loved you all so very much!" reads a tweet posted to the 
streamer's account today. "Thank you for all of the love and support 
throughout his careerâ€”making you all happy is truly what he lived for 
ðŸ’™" 

Hundreds of fans have responded with memorials of their own. 

Puppers/Max loved you all so very much!Thank you for all of the love 
and support throughout his career - making you all happy is truly what 
he lived for ðŸ’™ https://t.co/Zhnf72kQ1aJune 2, 2023 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/beloved-twitch-streamer-puppers-dies-at-32/