----- Please observe a whole symphonic orchestra recording the Vampire Survivors soundtrack -----

From a pure comedy standpoint, like a kind of farcical slapstick 
angle, Vampire Survivors really is the gift that keeps on giving. What 
started as a dude's side project to develop over time and fool around 
with some game mechanics ideas turned into a huge, huge hit. It didn't 
have a story. The soundtrack wasÂ  

Now a professional symphony orchestra recorded fully scored, composed, 
and conducted soundtrack music for its second DLC, Tides of the 
Foscari, complete with conductor and soloist credits. You can watch a 
video of it happening. 

All for a $2 game about vampires where the joke is that there are 
absolutely no vampires present. If you own Vampire Survivors on Steam, 
well, you own all these tracks too, as they're part of the soundtrack 
there. 

As many of you who have been following Vampire Survivors from the 
beginning know, the soundtrack has always been a super important part 
of the game (yes, even more important than the story ðŸ˜œ )," said 
creator Luca Galante in a Steam post. "During Early Access I would 
often receive a track from our main composers and musicians, Daniele 
and Filippo, and use it to get myself in the right mindset while 
building new parts of VS. The game wouldnâ€™t be what it is today 
without its music." 

"The orchestra recording is by the Budapest Scoring Orchestra (they 
also worked on films like Parasite and Get Out and games like 
Injustice 2). The recordings took place over six hours of recording 
sessions with a total of 76 musicians, and the largest session 
involved a 56-piece orchestra. It was honestly pretty moving and 
impressive to see melodies from our little game performed like that. A 
huge thanks to all of you for allowing us to go nuts by hiring an 
orchestra," he said. 

PC Gamer's Ted Litchfeld called Vampire Survivors' Tides of the 
Foscari DLC the "perfect $2 jolt of the game I fell in love with last 
year" and it's hard to disagree with his assessment. More goofy dudes, 
more weird weapons, more secrets to de-secrete. 

Another big W for the game that beat out Elden Ring for BAFTA game of 
the year. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/please-observe-a-whole-symphonic-orchestra-recording-the-vampire-survivors-soundtrack/