----- Diablo 4 has a winner in its race to world's first level 100, but the Hardcore mode competition still rages on -----


As reported by PCGamesN, streamer Rob2628 was the first Diablo 4 
player in the world to reach the game's max level of 100 on its normal 
difficulty, with four more players having since reached the finish 
line as well. The world's first Hardcore mode 100, meanwhile, remains 
up for grabs, with streamer wudijo currently leading at level 87. 

Rob2628 took the crown with a beefy shout and whirlwind-focused 
Barbarian build, as well as a crew of friends who helped him run the 
XP-rich Champion's Demise dungeon on repeat thanks to a cheeky level- 
resetting exploit. Rob2628's quest took around 54 hours to complete, 
and he managed to get most of his progress in before Blizzard dropped 
in a sneaky hotfix to nerf his Barb of choice. 

Competitors Draelin, rengar666, KlapopjeKOP, and Willemh were quick to 
join Rob2628 in the 100 club, with another 9 players already in the 
90s as well. All of this applies to the race on Diablo 4's normal 
difficulty, or as Diablo Builds has unfortunately dubbed it, 
"Softcore." 

The race for Hardcore world's first 100 is still on, with players not 
only vying to level up quickly, but also carefullyâ€”death is permanent 
in Hardcore, and we've already seen Team Liquid owner Maximum and Path 
of Exile/WoW streamer Imexile have their runs cut short by glitches. 
Diablo/PoE streamer wudijo is currently in the lead at level 87, with 
PoE streamer ben_ trailing in second at level 85. That's a bigger gap 
than it may seem at first, with XP demands increasing exponentially as 
one levels up in Diablo 4, but the risky and unpredictable nature of 
Hardcore means it could still be anyone's game. 

Those increasing XP demands mean it could still take some time yet for 
the first Hardcore runner to reach 100 and get their name on 
Blizzard's nifty statue of Lilith, Diablo 4's poster child Lady 
Diablo. You can follow the overall progress of the race on the Diablo 
Builds website and Twitch channel. For now though, congratulations to 
Rob2628, time for a nap and a snack. 


Link to the original article: https://www.pcgamer.com/diablo-4-has-a-winner-in-its-race-to-worlds-first-level-100-but-the-hardcore-mode-competition-still-rages-on/