----- How many Russians have left during war - and who are they? -----

Hundreds of thousands of Russians are estimated to have left their
country since the start of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. We look
at who they are, where they are going, and why they are leaving.

Svetlana is in her early 30s and originally from a small town. She
moved to Moscow at 18 to study physics at university. After graduation
she worked as a product manager for various companies.

"I never thought I'd have to leave, I planned to retire in Moscow,"
she says, "I love Russia and I enjoyed my life."

Russians had been leaving even before the Ukraine war, including those
who disagreed with Moscow's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and with new
laws that made it easier to punish dissent. Many settled in the Baltic
states and other EU countries, as well as in Georgia.

For Svetlana, the full-scale invasion of Ukraine of 2022 was a turning
point.

"When the war started, I realised that it would not be over soon and
also that people would not come out to protest. I felt both
emotionally and rationally it made sense to leave," she says. She is
now in Belgrade, Serbia's capital.

"I wanted to put as great a distance between myself and the
authorities as possible."

Many Russians shared her feelings and what had been a trickle turned
into a stream.

The first wave came in March and April last year - new emigres told
the BBC they were against the war, and disappointed more Russians did
not come out to protest. Feeling isolated and at risk, they felt it
was safer to leave.

President Putin began a military mobilisation in September 2022.
Described as "partial" by the authorities, in reality it meant most
men were at risk of the draft.

Numerous reports followed of poor training and insufficient kit
provided to the newly conscripted.

Men and their families started leaving in droves, creating days'-long
queues on the Russian borders with Georgia and Kazakhstan.

The Russian president's official spokesman Dmitry Peskov has denied
Russians were leaving en masse to avoid being drafted.

In April Russian authorities introduced an "online call-up", where new
conscripts could be added to a digital register rather than be handed
the papers by hand - he also denied the new system was designed to
stop the flow of men leaving.

There are no exact figures on how many people have left Russia - but
estimates vary from hundreds of thousands to several million.

In May the UK Ministry of Defence estimated 1.3 million people leaving
Russia in 2022.

Other estimates of figures from various sources confirm the trend.
Forbes magazine cited sources inside the Russian authorities as saying
that between 600,000 and 1,000,000 people left in 2022. The Bell and
RTVi - both independent Russian media - published comparable figures.

Your device may not support this visualisation

Leaving Russia is relatively easy, as long as you have money and have
not been called up to the army. But finding a permanent place to stay
is hard.

In the months following the start of the war many countries, mostly
the EU and the US, made it difficult for Russians to apply for visas
unless they already had family there or were travelling for work.

In many other countries - such as Georgia and Armenia - Russians faced
no such restrictions and could come and go as they please. They still
can.

Other countries, including Kazakhstan, changed their laws earlier this
year, reportedly to stem the flow of Russian immigrants by limiting
how many days they can stay as tourists.

Without a prospect of returning to Russia, more and more people need
to apply for residency to be able to work in the countries they are
settling in - though many are finding ways to keep working remotely
for Russian employers.

We know that in the past 15 months, around 155,000 Russians received
temporary residence permits in, collectively, EU countries, in several
countries of the Balkans, Caucasus and Central Asia.

Nearly 17,000 have applied for political asylum in EU countries but
only around 2,000 have received it, according to the European Union
Agency for Asylum.

The Russian Interior Ministry says 40% more have applied for foreign
passports in 2022 than in the year before.

Since the start of this war we have spoken to dozens of Russians who
have left.

They come from different walks of life. Some are journalists like us,
but there are also IT experts, designers, artists, academics, lawyers,
doctors, PR specialists, and linguists. Most are under 50. Many share
western liberal values and hope Russia will be a democratic country
one day. Some are LGBTQ+.

Sociologists studying the current Russian emigration say there is
evidence that those leaving are younger, better educated and wealthier
than those staying. More often they are from bigger cities.

Thomas is from St Petersburg.

"I am a pacifist and was terrified of being sent to kill other people.
I've been against Russia's policy towards Ukraine since 2014. Invasion
and killing of civilians is unacceptable," he says.

After the start of the full-scale invasion he posted anti-war messages
on social media and joined street protests, he says. As a gay man, he
was also concerned for his safety.

"After Russia adopted laws on 'ban on gay propaganda' and on 'fake
news' about the Russian army I knew that the threat to my life and
freedom had increased," he says.

Thomas applied for political asylum in Sweden and tried to explain to
the authorities there why returning to Russia would be dangerous. His
application was turned down but he appealed against the decision.

"Since I only have the right to limited time with a state lawyer, I am
working on gathering evidence for my case on my own."

For Sergei, a native of the southern city of Rostov-on-Don, it is a
different set of problems. He is now in Tbilisi, Georgia. The day
Russia invaded Ukraine, he phoned several of his friends and they all
agreed the war was bad news.

"Whatever happened next, the economy was going to go down," he says.
"A week later we all met up and decided we needed to prepare to
[leave]."

As days went on, Sergei says, the war got closer.

"We saw a lot of military kit on its way to Ukraine. Hospitals were
full of wounded. Rostov airport was closed for civilian flights but
there were lots of planes and we knew where they were going."

In September after Putin's mobilisation speech Sergei's mother, who
had criticised him for not being sufficiently patriotic, phoned him
and said: "Pack your things and go." Sergei drove all night to
Georgia, where he now lives.

"My wife and child are still in Russia. I have to pay their expenses
and accommodation out there and my own here. I work two jobs - one
remotely for my company in Russia and one here, for a friend's small
business."

Sergei says he is saving money to get his family out of Russia to
another country. His wife, who had been reluctant, now agrees they
need to look for a new life elsewhere, he says.

The Russian authorities tried to downplay the impact of hundreds of
thousands of educated and well-off people leaving the country along
with their money, but the economic impact is evident.

Russia's largest private bank, Alfa Bank, estimates that 1.5% of
Russia's entire workforce may have left the country. Most of those who
left are highly skilled professionals. Companies complain of staff
shortages and hiring difficulties.

Russia's Central Bank reported in the early stages of the war that
Russians withdrew a record 1.2 trillion roubles (around Â£12bn /
$15bn) from their accounts. This is a scale unseen in Russia since the
2008 financial crisis.

Economist Sergei Smirnov from the Russian National Academy of Sciences
believes that, as a general trend,higher skilled individuals will
continue to look for ways to leave.

This video can not be played

Watch: Do Russians really hate the West? - The BBC's Steve Rosenberg
tries to find out

"There will be increasingly more demand for people to be able to fix
cars or make shoes. I don't like apocalyptic scenarios but I believe
this will lead to productivity within the Russian economy continuing
to fall over time."

The economist points out that these trends will primarily affect large
cities, such as Moscow, St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg.

"Most of the Russian territory will not be aware of these
transformations because standards of living in smaller cities, towns
and villages have always been low and will continue to be in the
future."

Meanwhile Svetlana, in Belgrade, has no plans to return to Russia.

"I am working for a start-up based in Moldova but recently I applied
for a job in the Netherlands."

Sergei in Tbilisi is applying for jobs in Europe. For now his life is
tough: "I don't have any days off, sometimes I don't have enough time
for a night's sleep, I nap in the car."

And Thomas in Sweden hopes he won't be forced to go back to Russia
where he fears homophobic abuse. He is learning Swedish to be able to
get any job at all.

Edited by Kateryna Khinkulova

Ukraine mothers go behind enemy lines to save stolen children

Tracking the rise of Russiaâs missile strikes on Kyiv

Ukraine trying to frighten Russians - Putin

Hundreds of expelled Germans set to leave Russia

Do Russians really hate the West? Video, 00:03:49Do Russians really
hate the West?


Link to the original article: https://www.bbc.com//news/world-europe-65790759