----- Harry finally faces questions in hacking case showdown -----

Prince Harry has been on this collision course for years - and finally
he is going to be in a courtroom in person, eyeball to eyeball, in his
battle against the tabloid press.

It promises to be an electrifying moment as he gives his evidence and
faces questions this coming week from lawyers in London's High Court
about his allegations of phone hacking.

Prince Harry has said that changing the media landscape is his "life's
work" - and this gladiatorial courtroom encounter could be one of his
own defining moments.

He has two of the key requirements for this legal battle: First, a
single-minded determination to keep going without settling, and
second, being rich enough to take the financial hit if he loses.

But giving evidence in person in this Mirror Group Newspapers hacking
trial will have big risks for him. He will face the type of open,
public and tough questioning that is a long way from any previous
royal interview he has taken part in.

"This isn't like taking questions from Oprah Winfrey in a celebrity
interview," says Tim Maltin, managing partner of Maltin PR, which
specialises in high-profile reputation management.

"It is a hostile encounter with a highly-skilled cross-examiner armed
with a battery of techniques to undermine your credibility.

"Giving evidence is dauntingâ¦ and cross-examination is far more
often traumatic than cathartic," he says.

Prince Harry is likely to face detailed questioning about highly
personal news stories which he claims were obtained through unlawful
means - an allegation which the newspaper group disputes.

He could face gruelling questioning about stories relating to his
relationships, his girlfriends, his mother Diana, the treatment of
Meghan and his life growing up in the Royal Family.

There have already been challenges to the allegations of Prince Harry
and his co-complainants. Lawyers for Mirror Group have said the
evidence of hacking is "slim" in some cases and "utterly non-existent"
in others.

Prince Harry's own memoir, Spare, might be turned against him, with
its accounts of drug taking and family tensions.

Historian and author Sir Anthony Seldon thinks Prince Harry is ill-
advised to be appearing in court like this.

"Harry should never be there," he says, arguing that the Royal Family
should rise above such fights.

"Harry's standing and trajectory will only be harmed, whatever the
outcome. The public is losing sympathy with him and his constant
protestations of victimhood," says Sir Anthony.

"Harry and Meghan's continuing hard luck stories only make William and
Kate look much better in every way," he adds.

But royal commentator Pauline Maclaran thinks taking a stand like this
could boost Prince Harry's popularity, particularly among young
people.

Rather than being accused of being privileged or entitled, she says in
this court case "he'll be seen as the underdog, and that's a good
position to be seen in".

"Many young people will see him as quite a heroic figure, fighting the
establishment," says Prof Maclaran, an academic at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

"It could be good for Harry in the long run, even though the older
generation will be tut-tutting," she says.

As for the rest of the Royal Family, they will be "watching with an
element of horror", she says.

A previous hacking case this year against News Group Newspapers
already produced the bombshell claim that Prince William had reached a
private settlement with the newspaper publishers.

And Prof Maclaran expects more focus on the Royal Family's dealings
with the press in a way that could prove "uncomfortable" for Harry's
royal relatives.

The Newsnight interview with Prince Andrew in 2019 only lasted an hour
- but it is still providing material for news four years later. So it
is not surprising if there is royal anxiety about Prince Harry facing
days of giving evidence.

There is going to be intense global interest in this court case. Harry
and his wife Meghan provoke strong reactions among supporters and
critics, and the eyes of the world will be watching.

Royal historian Ed Owens says the public will be fascinated by this
combination of "courtroom drama and royal soap opera" and the prospect
of a royal "pulling back the curtain" on the relationship between the
tabloid press and the monarchy.

Not only does this case aim to expose evidence of hacking, but the
stakes are made even higher by the argument that senior executives
must also have known what was going on.

How will Harry react when his claims are challenged and put under the
microscope? Will he start getting irritated? Will it be upsetting for
him to talk about the press intrusion which by his own account has
dogged him since childhood? How will he handle the pressure?

It is very unusual to see a royal appearance in a witness box.

The last senior royal to give evidence in this way was in the 19th
Century, when Edward VII, as Prince of Wales, appeared in two cases -
one in a dispute over card cheating and the other in a divorce case,
in which the prince denied any "improper familiarity".

In 2002, Princess Anne appeared in court to plead guilty after her
dogs bit two children.

But those were very brief and different types of court appearances.

Part of the mystique of the monarchy is in saying little and answering
less. Prince Harry is breaking the unspoken taboo about a royal going
into the witness box to face what could be very embarrassing questions
- but it is something that he clearly feels is worth the risk.

His grievance with the excesses of the press is deeply personal and
emotional.

This is a court confrontation that you could almost trace directly
back to the death of his mother Diana, in a car crash in Paris in 1997
when she was being pursued by paparazzi.

He has repeatedly connected that moment to his battle with the tabloid
press.

It is his day of reckoning. His high noon in the High Court.

Prince Harry phone hacking trial explained

Harry's court case raises awkward questions


Link to the original article: https://www.bbc.com//news/uk-65730884