----- Signal fault likely cause of rail crash - India minister -----

This video can not be played

Watch: Workers clear the wreckage from the train tracks following the
fatal train accident on Friday

India's railway minister has suggested a signal fault led to the
Odisha rail disaster, with a "change in electronic interlocking" the
likely cause.

Ashwini Vaishnaw later said the cause and people responsible for the
deadly three-train crash in eastern India had been identified but did
not elaborate.

India's Railway Board said there had been "some kind of signalling
interference" rather than failure.

A report into India's worst rail accident this century is due later.

Meanwhile the death toll has been revised down to 275 after some
bodies were counted twice, officials said.

Of the 1,175 injured people taken to hospital, 793 have been
discharged. Some families are still searching for their loved ones.

In railway signalling the electronic interlocking system sets routes
for each train in a set area, ensuring the safe movement of trains
along the track.

The crash saw a passenger train collide with a stationary goods train
and derail, after being wrongly directed onto a loop track by the side
of the main line. Derailed carriages then struck the rear carriages of
a second passenger train passing in the opposite direction.

At a press conference on Sunday, Jaya Verma Sinha from India's Railway
Board said both passenger trains had approached a Balasore district
station under a green signal - indicating it was safe - within seconds
of each other at the correct speed of under 130kph (81mph).

She said the passenger trains had been supposed to pass each other on
the main lines but the Coromandel Express rammed into an iron ore-
laden freight train on the loop line, causing the engine and some
coaches to lift over the top of the heavy goods carriages.

The passenger train took the entire impact on collision and the
freight train was not derailed, or even moved, she told reporters.

The Howrah Superfast Express had nearly crossed in the opposite
direction, but two of its rear coaches were struck by the derailed
Coromandel Express.

Ms Verma Sinha said there was "no issue with the electronic
interlocking system" and said investigations indicated "some kind of a
signalling interference" rather than failure.

"Whether it was manual, whether it was incidental, whether it was
weather related, whether it was because of wear and tear related,
whether it was a maintenance failure, all that will come out after the
inquiry," she added.

Infrastructure expert Partha Mukhopadhyay told the BBC it should not
be possible for green signals to display on the main line if the track
is set for the loop.

"Signal interlocking is supposed to be failsafe and this level of
failure is quite unprecedented," Mr Mukhopadhyay, from the Delhi-based
think tank Centre for Policy Research, said.

On Saturday Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the crash scene and
vowed that anyone found guilty would be "punished stringently".

Around 2,000 people are thought to have been on board the two
passenger trains - the Coromandel Express, travelling between Kolkata
(formerly Calcutta) and Chennai (formerly Madras) and the Howrah
Superfast Express travelling from Yesvantpur to Howrah - when the
crash happened at aboutat about 19:00 (13:30 GMT) on Friday.

Odisha state official Pradeep Jena told the BBC that at least 187
bodies remained unidentified and officials were uploading pictures of
the victims on government websites and would carry out DNA testing if
needed.

Rescue work was completed on Saturday and efforts were underway to
clear wreckage and restart train traffic, officials said.

India has one of the largest train networks in the world with millions
of passengers using it daily, but a lot of the railway infrastructure
needs improving.

Trains in India can get very packed at this time of year, with a
growing number of people travelling during school holidays.

The country's worst train disaster was in 1981, when an overcrowded
passenger train was blown off the tracks and into a river during a
cyclone in Bihar state, killing about 800 people.

'Chaos' outside hospital after India train crash

Drone shows extent of India train crash destruction

In pictures: Recovery operation after deadly crash


Link to the original article: https://www.bbc.com//news/world-asia-india-65801807